# CS-250 SNHU Travel Sprint Review/Retrospective

<br><b>How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?</b></br>

User needs are interpreted through user stories which provide the foundational unit within an agile framework. A user story is a software feature from the perspective of the user. The user story is given a name, description, priority, id, acceptance criteria, and pass/fail conditions. Each of these aspects are key to interpreting user needs through the lens of the user. User stories provide the framework for which user stories can be broken down and managed so that the requested features may be implemented through the development process. Thus, you are understanding the perspective of the user and their own requests, and then breaking down their perspective into a functional, gaugeable format. Therefore, user stories are so useful within an agile framework.

<br><b>How do I approach developing programs? What agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?</b></br>

If I were to approach developing a program with a team, I would go about implementing an agile framework. This would mean first identifying the team roles (such as Product Owner, Scrum Master, Tester, and Developer). Once the roles are defined, I would then ensure the product needs are identified in user stories and added to a product backlog. The product backlog would be managed by the development team based upon the set priorities determined by the Product Owner. Then once the backlog is set, daily meetings would occur to provide transparency on the project development and remove any potential roadblocks. These key ideas are essential to the Agile framework and are some examples I personally would incorporate into my future development.

<br><b>What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?</b></br>

A good team member is diligent, helpful, self-organized, and empowered. Each of these traits are foundational to become a great software developer. Diligence is required for a software developer as work requires persistence and effort in an autonomous environment. Likewise, a self-organized individual is necessary for a developer, especially in an agile framework. Managing the product backlog and user stories requires the developer to manage their work with care and coordination. A helpful team member is essential as those who assist one another help remove roadblocks encountered in the development process, which in turn, increases efficiency, productivity, and team morale. Lastly, an empowered developer can work autonomously, be self-managing and cross-functional. Each of these traits are indispensable to be a good team member in software development.